You know, that that was not my strong suit, but I
had, I think I've always exhibited common sense
and some leadership ability apparently, and they
gave me credit for what I had and did not diminish me
for what I did not have. During your student era,
Describe generally the attitudes of the typical
Aggie student. Were they rich, poor,
conservative, liberal, what? Conservative and
poor. There were a handful of guys that had cars, so
you thought they were rich. Just to have a car, you
had to be rich. And where did they come from
geographically? Everywhere. And in today's
politically correct definition of diversity,
how diverse was the student body? It wasn't. It
wasn't. I remember quite a few Hispanics, like I
described earlier. I know drill team. We had an
enormous number of guys from Central Catholic
High School. And how were those Hispanics
treated? Just like, I think everybody was treated
just exactly the same. I don't think there was a bit
of difference. To my knowledge, there was no
difference while I was a student. Were there any,
well, by the time you graduated, there were some
black students. There were a handful. I didn't
personally know any. I knew them, you know, just I
knew some names of two or three of them, but I didn't
really know any of them. All right. How does that
relate to whatever Aggie spirit is? What is Aggie
spirit?
The impact is that I think you end up with knowing
individuals, be they student friends that become
lifelong members or the even if it is two or three
faculty or staff that you remember, the impact of
silver taps and muster and a few ceremonies, and
the fact that you had an experience that just molds
you to be prepared to do whatever you decide you
want to do. And that ends up equaling a spirit. And
then you learn right away that the former students
that are out there are going to accept you
immediately.
It doesn't matter if it says double ought or 65. The
number on the ring is immaterial to everybody that
has one. Does the person's academic major matter?
Not to the spirit. It doesn't matter. You've got 25
years now. You've got to give different answers
for the last 20 years, and especially the last 10
years, because the quality of the guy that had a
diploma from high school has long ago not been able
to get in here. But you still have these
high-quality young people that want to be touched
by the spirit and the Aggie connection and the
friendships and see all of that when they're
coming in the door and want to be impacted by it
immediately. The stories of these 12 kids that
lost their lives this year, absolutely awesome
young people to where it reminds you that that's
what all of them are. It wasn't just accidentally
that 12. That is the example. They are all like
that. An enormous number of them are
valedictorians. An enormous number of those guys
were all Eagle Scouts. They did try to help people
while they were up there on that stack and point at
somebody else. I mean, just awesome young people
that Through this period of time, what they're
going to do in the next 50 years is anything they
want to go do. And the leadership examples that
will be available 40 years from now compared to the
leadership examples that are available now will
be off the books. Now, in your day, not many
students went to fish camp, did they? No, it was
summer school at Junction. Yeah, yeah. It had the
same role. It was limited for that reason. I
couldn't afford to go that summer or I would have
probably gone. It would have been good for me if I
could have gone. Because I today think that part of
the Aggie spirit. We have 4,000 freshmen of 6,300
that go through fish camp. And so they get
connected immediately. Yep, yep. You have 11,000
kids live on campus out of the 36,000
undergraduates. It's huge. The residential
living is a huge part of feeling connected and
knowing people and the involvement level. And
I'll bring back another day for just a five or ten
minute visit. I've got some data gathered. If you
measure the quality of the student body by the
percentage of all undergraduates who were in the
top ten percent of their high school class, This is
the best student body in the Big 12. Tech, Kansas
State, and Nebraska are at the bottom. Texas is
second. When I mention this to anybody, I try to
always indicate one of the great blessings Texas
A&M has is to have another top-notch public school
100 miles away, and everything they achieve, we
want to outdo and vice versa, ratchet each other
up. that we have a comparatively, compared to most
schools, have a comparatively high percentage
living on campus. We're eighth in the country on
campus living. We have about 91% of the students
went to high school in Texas, but the diversity
geographically is increasing and that's
healthy. And the great problem of the future is how
many students to enroll and how do you select them?
Do you get more and more and more? That's a
difficult one. I'm the only guy that would like to
go to 55,000
because you do not change the quality of the kids
coming in by going to 55,000. No. Because the 4,000
turned down this year were fully qualified. And by
expectation would be doing just as well as anybody
as the ones that were admitted. The limitation is
resources, space, faculty, time. Let's see. Only
two or three things left.
What do you think it meant to you that you attended
Texas A&M?
For my background coming from the family that I did
and having the chance to get a college education
and then have a, at least at that moment, a very
clear direction of military service put me off on a
road that gave me a chance to change my mind later.
What did you learn at Texas A&M, defining the word
learn now in its broadest? I think that I had
reinforced family values of integrity. I think I
learned integrity. I learned common sense, hard
work, the right way to do something. began to learn
the importance of friendships and how to nurture
them and make them work and appreciate them.
I've had a chance to give back to a degree greater
than almost anybody has. But I'm very grateful
that I've had that chance because I wouldn't have
mounted to a hill of beans. All right. The next to
last one. Let's make believe somebody walked up to
you when the lottery is finished tonight and
handed you a million-dollar check with only one
condition. You must pass it on to A&M, but you can
decide what use to be made of it. What would you? It
would be the Malin Sutherland Quality of Student
Life Endowment.
where the Vice President for Student Affairs can
decide what student needs $500 to go to England or
$500 to pay the rent or whatever good purpose,
educational or need-based. I've run into many,
many old-timers who say that the opportunity
award which their FFA or their advisor helped them
to get literally changed their life. Last
question. What feelings do you hold in your heart
for Texas A&M? We don't have enough time. You'll
have to bring another tape. The quality of the
people that I have known and been touched by and
maybe had the ability to touch to some degree is
enormous and is not the experience that most human
beings get to have in the full power of a
relationship from knowing an 18-year-old
freshman to knowing them as a four-star general.
and the enormous change that happens and that you
can see and see what the ability to have some
success in an environment at A&M really prepares
you dramatically well for the real world. Let's
quit there.